rip(5) -- rip file format
=========================

## SYNOPSIS

A simple Rip file (e.g. deps.rip):

    git://github.com/ezmobius/redis-rb.git eed200ad
    git://github.com/brianmario/yajl-ruby.git 0.6.3
    rack 1.0
    sinatra
    mustache

Each Rip file describes a set of Rip packages, one package per line.

## DESCRIPTION

A basic Rip package can be described in terms of its source and
relevant install-time instructions.

The format is:

    SOURCE [PATH] [VERSION]

Each line of a Rip file can be fed to `rip-install`.

### Comments

Rip files use Ruby-style `#` comments. Anything after a `#` on a line
is considered a comment.

    # comment
    redis # also a comment

### Source

Always the first item in the line, the source describes where the
package can be found. A source can be any of the following things:

* RubyGem
* git repository
* local file

Planned:

* hg repository
* bzr repository
* tarball
* zip
* local directory
* remote file (http)

More details on each under `SOURCES`.

### Version

The version is any argument which starts with [a-z0-9]. Some examples:

* master
* 0.6.3
* v0.1.2
* eed200ad

### Path

A path is an argument which begins with a slash. Paths tells Rip which
subdirectory to use as the base directory when installing the target
package. For example, given this line:

    git://github.com/rails/rails.git /activerecord

Rip would fetch and unpack `git://github.com/rails/rails.git` but use
`activerecord` as the root when installing.

### Name

Rip derives a package's name from its source.

## SOURCES

Thanks to pip(1) for the inspiration.

### git repository

Rip will use git to fetch a package if its source is in one of the
following formats:

    git://git.myproject.org/MyProject
    git@git.myproject.org:MyProject.git
    git+http://git.myproject.org/MyProject
    git+ssh://git@myproject.org/MyProject

Rip will also try to fetch any source ending in `.git`:

    http://git.myproject.org/MyProject.git
    file:///Users/chris/Projects/rip/.git

### hg repository

Rip will use hg to fetch a package if its source is in one of the
following formats:

    hg+http://hg.myproject.org/MyProject/
    hg+https://hg.myproject.org/MyProject/
    hg+ssh://hg@myproject.org/MyProject/

### bzr repository

Rip will use bzr to fetch a package if its source is in one of the
following formats:

    bzr+http://bzr.myproject.org/MyProject/trunk/ /MyProject
    bzr+sftp://user@myproject.org/MyProject/trunk/ /MyProject
    bzr+ssh://user@myproject.org/MyProject/trunk/ /MyProject
    bzr+ftp://user@myproject.org/MyProject/trunk/ /MyProject

### local file

Files can be specified as long as they exist on disk and end in
`.rb`.

    /var/packages/iphone/iphone.rb
    index.rb

## BUGS

<http://github.com/defunkt/rip/issues>

## SEE ALSO

rip(1), git(1),
<http://hellorip.com/>
